what is up guys karma medic here and
welcome back to another dose today I
want to make a video talking about my
experience as a graduate student on the
undergraduate course of medicine at
King's College London hopefully this
video will help other mature students
who are thinking about taking this path
where this entry to medicines help them
make their decision or dispel a couple
of minutes or misconceptions that they
might have so I applied to medicine as a
graduate student after I finished my
undergraduate degree at the University
of Toronto over there I studied
immunology biotechnology and
microbiology and one of my biggest
concerns when applying to medicine in
the UK was I was gonna be significantly
older than a lot of the students who
went through the direct path after high
school now keep in mind I was 22 when I
applied I just turned 23 but there are a
lot of students who are in the 25 26
range and we even have some students who
are above 30 I want to start this video
by talking about a couple of reasons why
I think being a mature student on the
undergraduate medicine course is a
really really good thing also before we
get into the video make sure to follow
me on my new Instagram page karma medic
I'll post a link in the description and
put a video up here I'm posting some
content there that shows my life as a
researcher now in the summer and I'm
gonna be posting there a lot of things
regarding medical school once I get back
to the UK in September so the first
thing is that I've already completed my
undergraduate degree I've already gone
through so many sleepless nights of
really hard work I've already taken so
many exams I've already had to juggle
really intense workloads with exams
social life I've already developed these
skills and I can now use what I already
know in my undergraduate course I don't
have to learn all these things from the
very beginning which a lot of direct
school leavers are gonna have to do now
since I can do that I can really focus
my time on things that can be outside of
my academics or schoolwork for example I
can spend more time socializing I could
spend more time pursuing other hobbies
or interests of mine such as sports or
even this YouTube channel because I have
a very efficient way of studying of
harness not over for years and I know
what I'm doing when it comes to
academics and studying second of all I
can really appreciate what it is that
I'm doing sometimes it'll have been a
very difficult journey to get to
medicine if you don't get it as a direct
school leaver so now that I'm finally in
medicine I'm hungry for knowledge I'm
hungry to learn and to experience all
the dissections the
to me and I feel like it gives us a
different perspective as graduate
students when we learn all this material
another thing is that exams don't scare
me as much in my undergrad degree I
wrote approximately 40 final exams and
maybe even double that many midterms
I've also had plenty of assignments
plenty of essays to write and so these
are all routine for me now I know how to
research for an essay I know how to
write an essay in structure 1 I know how
to study for my exams I know how much
time I need and this really makes my
life a lot easier when I'm in medical
school and lastly kind of a side note
you'll find that some of the younger
students will look up to you and they'll
ask you for advice they'll ask you for
how to write notes how to study and I
find that kind of cool it's always great
to be able to give back or to show
someone how you did something in the
hopes that it might help them as well I
know when I was in undergrad I always
looked up to second year third year and
fourth year students and I really wanted
their advice I wanted their know how all
the little secrets of having been
through the experience and I was always
looking for them to help me if I could
now I just wanted to spell a couple of
myths that even I had when I was first
going to medical school in the UK coming
into the experience as an older student
and knowing that I was gonna be
surrounded by lots of school leavers so
one of the things I was worried about
was not all the direct school leavers
would be too immature or that we would
be in such a different place in our life
and in our mine state that we wouldn't
be able to mingle and get along and
become good friends but I've honestly
found that to be so untrue for example
in my tutorial group or a group of 12
there's two graduate students myself and
one other person and the rest of the
students are undergraduate direct school
leavers and we get along just fine we
have plenty of fun and tutorials we are
planning to talk about lots of banter
and on top of that you just you get
along well as you get to know the other
students a little bit better you find
that the age difference becomes
something that's not important and you
can get along well have a very good
conversation and have fun even when you
go out the second thing that I was
worried about was that there wouldn't be
enough graduate students was that we
would be such a small minority that it
would be hard to make friends within the
graduate circle but I found that to be
so so untrue and again it might depend
on which university you attend depending
on the class size and how many graduate
students they take but for example at
Kings were a class of about 450 students
and there's at least 60 graduate
students that I know of and so out of
all those graduate students you can meet
plenty
them a lot of them you'll get to me in
freshers week and some you'll pick up
along as you go through the year and
then you can decide who you get along
with best we don't get along with so
well
but my point is that there's plenty of
choice there's plenty of other graduate
students who you were able to meet also
I was quite worried about the specific
age difference between 18 and 22 or 19
and 22 so the age difference between 18
and 22 is quite large and you are in a
very different level but once you hit
that in 19 and 22 or 19 and 23 range
you'll find that the age gap really
isn't as important and on top of that
I'm I I was 22 when I joined KCl and I
hung out with plenty of people who were
25 26 27 and so it works both ways I was
a younger student to a lot of other more
mature students than me and I was a lot
older than other younger students and
honestly the age gap really isn't that
big of a deal as you get to know someone
you'll realise that it's really not that
important now when I was applying to
medical school one thing that I
considered was living on dorms in my
first year and I thought that would be a
very good way to get to meet other
students to integrate myself into the
University life so that you could meet
as many people as you can and make as
many friends as possible for a graduate
student living in a first year dominant
dorm I think that might be a terrible
idea
because a lot of the first year students
are just gonna want to party super hard
they're gonna want to have a really
great time always be out making loud
noise and staying up really late which
is totally fine I went through that when
I went to university and I was an
undergraduate student but now things
have changed for me and I'm kind of more
focused on my studies and hang out with
my friends and let's say more tame
settings so if you are a graduate
student and you're applying to an
undergraduate course keep in mind that
there are graduate residences
specifically for mature students and
that can really help ease the transition
into the medical school where you can
still integrate yourself into the
community but you're not gonna be
constantly surrounded by students who
would want to party every single night
another thing is that I was really
worried that relearning all of the
biomedical science all of the
biochemistry the biology even some
chemistry would be super super boring
and so my first year would be dry I
would be relearning a lot of things that
I already learned and I would just hate
and have a really annoying and not
fulfilling first year now it turns out
all that stuff about boring medical
and relearning some stuff that you
learned is true however there's so much
new stuff that you learned that it kind
of bounces that out for example we have
anatomy we have the sections we have all
the tutorials and workshops and a lot of
those hands-on activities were very new
to me and so it was really great to have
that balance down by the lectures and
it's kind of what kept me going
throughout the year making sure that you
really focus on and delve yourself into
the anatomy aspect the clinical skills
and all of those things will help take
you away from the boredom of relearning
a lot of the things that you've already
learned in your undergraduate degree
another really nice thing was that in
underground if we ever learned a concept
we would go into every single tiny
detail about it we would be expected to
memorize all of those details
whereas in medical school it takes a
much more broad overview it's a lot more
about surface level topics over a wide
range of things as opposed to a specific
topic going very very deep and so that
was really great because I'd memorized
all the details for some pathway whereas
now I only had to learn the surface
level details of it and so it was a lot
easier for me to recall that memory all
in all the point that I'm trying to get
across is that if you want to do
medicine and if you want to study in the
UK don't be shy or don't be put off by
applying as a graduate student to the
undergraduate course it honestly made
almost zero difference to my experience
I enjoyed it so much and I hung out with
all the other graduate students and some
undergraduate students as well and it
made for a very very good experience if
medicine is something you want to pursue
don't let this path be something that
throws you off and next year and year
two I have all of the clinical aspects
like being in a GP surgery or in a
hospital for one day each week and so
I'm really really excited for that
there's no more relearning all that BS
biochem BS chemistry and biology and
whatever so that's gonna be very
interesting to see next year starting
September so yeah honestly just go for
it the experience is great you're not
gonna regret it and all in all it's one
extra year compared to the gradual entry
course and the graduated course is a lot
more competitive as I'm sure you know
and for me for example I was an
international student I wanted to
increase my chances as much as possible
to get into med so I only applied for
the five year courses I didn't want to
apply to the four year courses and have
an even more competitive and difficult
time getting into medical school and
that's a guys just a short one really
focused towards the graduate students I
just
encourage you to apply to medicine and
not be put off by the fact that a lot of
the other students around you will be
younger than you so yeah guys that's it
for me make sure to LIKE this video if
you liked the content if you learn
something new subscribe see more videos
from me and also follow me on Instagram
on the new page that I made I think
you'll enjoy the content that I'll be
posting there too happy studying happy
applications and I'll see you in the
next one peace